Abstract:
Lately there has been a boom in research regarding the usage of robotics in the medical sector, due to the recent growing concern of the pandemic. Usage of robotics in health care ensures safe and sound medical services for both healthcare personnel's and patients. But for developing nations, integrating robots with healthcare has been a great challenge. 
So, in this work proposed work, our goal is to create an affordable robot, which will be used in the healthcare sector.

This work proposes a Line based Maze solver robot which is intended to use in the medical sector. The robot uses maze based line to navigate to the hospital rooms. The robot uses 10 infrared reflectance sensors to detect the line, which is 1 inch thick black line on white surface. The robot uses PID control loop for line following and Left hand maze solving algorithm for maze solving. The robot uses 2D scanning of the environment at the front in order to avoid collision. The system uses infrared range finder sensor along with a servo for continuous monitoring of the environment. The robot also consist of a 5-DOF robotic arm, which fulfills all the criteria of being cost efficient and intuitive to use. A controller have also been developed, which can be used to control the arm wirelessly over a distance to 20-30 meters. The controller is a wearable device which can translate hand gestures to robotic movements. The robot can act as a bionic extension arm of the controller person. The hand controlling unit has a pair of IMU sensors and a potentiometer which translates the users hand movement to proper instructions for the robotic arm, which then sends over a wireless communication medium. The robot is connected to an IOT server from where it collects patient data. The project in intended to be used for safe medicine and goods delivery to the patients, collect patients vitals and for assisting patients.

This project will be useful in pandemic situation as it bridges health care personnel and patients in a safe and hygiene way.



Introduction:
The concept of robot is really old. One of the first instances of building a machine to carry out repetitive tasks happened at around 3000 B.C. Although the definition of Robots has changed quite a bit throughout the years. Any Electro-Mechanical machine which is capable of carrying out some task or series of tasks automatically is called a robot. Also, some manual remotely operated machines can also be classified as a robot. A robot reasons upon its environment based on the implemented on-board logic and programming. Robots have become a part and parcel in our daily industrial works. Robots have been working alongside humans. 
Combination of people, institutions and resources whose purpose is to provide health care services are collectively knows as Health Care system. Lately there have been a boom in research in the healthcare robots. [1] The main task of a healthcare robot is to provide services to the human users which will improve their health and lifestyle. Health care robot can range from simple cleaning robots or delivery robots to more complex surgery robots. [4] Currently there are several scopes where a health care robot can be deployed. 

[2] Cleaning and disinfecting robots, these types of robots are primarily used for cleaning and disinfecting environment from dangerous pathogens.
[3] Nurse Robots, whose main functions are carrying patients or assisting patients by telecommunication.
[5] Surgery Robots, whose main purpose is to remotely operate surgery upon patients, some robots are capable of performing fully unmanned surgery. 
[6] Tele-medicine robots are used virtually present health care provider to the patient.
[7] Rehabilitation robot helps patients to return back to their normal life after certain illness or addiction.
[8] delivery robots, as their name suggests delivers foods, medicine and other goods to the patients.


In this work, we have proposed an cost efficient autonomous assistive robot which will be used in the medical sector and which is able to play a vital role in pandemic times. Our project is a line based maze solver robot which can map hospital beds and rooms by solving maze form the hospital floor. The robot uses PID control loop in order to follow the line and uses Left hand Algorithm for maze solving. The robot uses 10 Infrared Line detector sensors in order to sense the Black line on white surface. The robot uses on-board sensors to collect environment data as well as patient vital collection data. The robot can also be controlled manually. And as the robot is also equipped with a 5-DOF robotic arm, it has a great potential to be used as a Tele-medicine Robot. The robot also uses a medicine delivery system in order to autonomously delivery medicines to the patients.


Our project also consists of a 5-DOF robotics arm, which is controlled by an onboard microcontroller. We have used Arduino Uno as the microcontroller. The arm has wireless bionic control mechanism which allows the user to control the robot using hand gestures with a wearable remote, which is intuitive to use. Mechanically, a robotic arm can be defined based on the nature of the relative movement between its links. There are five different types of Robot Arm configurations. [9]
They are as follows:
•Cartesian (3P)
• Cylindrical (R2P)
• Spherical (Polar) (2 RP)
• Articulated (3R)
• SCARA (2R in horizontal + 1P in vertical plane)

Where R is Revolute Joint and P is Prismatic Joint. Our Developed Robot only consists of Revolute joint. A revolute joint is a 1-DOF joint along the common axis, which is also known as hinge joint. [10]
Our robotic arm contains five revolute joints. We have used High torque metal geared Servos as Actuators. The fabrication of the entire robot body is done with plywood.


Motivation:

A pandemic is defined as a wide outbreak of infectious disease occurring within the world or within a vast area. As a lot of people get affected simultaneously during a pandemic within a short time interval, it becomes almost uncontrollable. But with proper risk assessment, and precautions the effects of a pandemic situation can be neutralized. [11] During the recent COVID-19 pandemic situation several research suggested that the front-line health care workers were at more risk of getting infected than anyone else. That is because healthcare workers are always exposed to patients with contagious disease. Also in a pandemic situation scarcity of health care protective equipment's are observed. So, healthcare workers are not only in a risk of getting affected, but also a potential carrier of pathogens if proper precautions aren't taken. In situations like these robotics can play a vital role, in making the healthcare system more safe, efficient and hygienic. 
Apart from the pandemic situations, uses of Tele-medicine robots and nurse robots can ensure 24 hrs of patient monitoring. [12] Hundreds of patients are dying because of the lack of nursing care and proper monitoring at the hospitals.[13] Plus in some cases nurses are not compassionate enough while treating patients. [14] Treating patients with rude behavior are not uncommon in hospitals. These things can lead a patient to further risk as mental health plays an important role in the well being of the patient. Also, critically diseased patients need ceaseless care, which is sometimes not possible to provide by human beings. So, this project is intended to leave an impact in the health care industry by saving lives and may play an important role in fighting pandemic situations.


Literature Review:


In research conducted by Swati and Pankaj, several maze solving algorithms were discussed and compared for their efficiency. The maze used in their research was a wall based maze which had an opening and an ending. Left hand follower algorithm, Right hand Follower algorithm, Dijkstra's algorithm and flood fill algorithm were used. Among them Flood-fill algorithm was the most efficient in finding the optimal path.

The utilization and necessity of robots in healthcare has been discussed in the research conducted by Zeashan, Afifa and Chang.
According to the research, healthcare robots should have the following characteristics, 1. Proper Sterilization, 2. Operator Safety, 3. Ease of Handling and Maintenance, 4. Power Requirement, 5. Cost effectiveness.
Health-care robots may have the following Classification:
Receptionist robot,Nurse Robot,Ambulance Robot,Tele-Medicine Robot,Hospital serving robot,Rehabilitation robot,Food Robot, Outdoor Delivery robot.
Robotic nurses are likely to be more common than actual nurses in future Japanese Healthcare. Dinosow, Relay, TUG, RP-VITA, Roomba i7, Moxi, Ambulot are some of the robots which are being used in the medical field already. So, robots if utilized properly can play a crucial role in fighting pandemics of contagious disease.

Line follower robots can also be utilized in the medical field. P. Shubha and M. Meenakshi [p2019.pdf]has published a work which focuses on solving tasks which are meant to be done by nurses using a Line Follower Robot. Their project uses clock module to autonomously deliver prescribed medicines to the patients. The robot uses radio frequency for communication and traverses following a line guidance. In another work published by a team from Qassim University, a health care system which consists of a mobile application to manipulate the patient medicines is featured. The project also features Telecommunication between doctor and patient, environment data collection and alarm for prescribed medicine.[alharbi2019]

Deepak, Neeraj, Vartika published a work which mainly focuses on using a line solver robot to make it recognize hospital beds. The robot relies on intersection on the line to identify the hospital beds. The robot counts the intersection number to keep track of the bed number. [IJARCET_VOL_2_ISSUE]

Lately there have been quite a few research in making robotic arms more user friendly and easy to use. A accelerometer gesture based robotic arm is featured by Love, Varnika, Puneet's work. An accelerometer based gesture recognition system is used in their published work. The robot basically tries to match the preset movements in the memory with the current gesture by the user.[Design_and_Implementation_of_a_Wireless_Gesture_Co] Another work by  Pankaj and  Milind features a robotic arm which can be controlled using real time hand tracking from the camera. The system determines the angle of the users arm and sends the data to the controlling micro-controller which then moves the mechanical arm accordingly. 


Rationale of Study:

The hunt for the perfect robot which will revolutionize the health sector for both the health care workers and patients, has been going on for years. And because of that we have seen an exponential growth in research of health care robots. One of the advantages of using line guidance based robots over the camera sensor based robots is that, line guidance based robots are more efficient to be used in the open areas like hospital wards. So, many teams have already worked on Line Guidance based robots in Health Care sector. But, our work fixes previous problems in this sector. Our robot uses efficient PID based algorithm for line tracing. It has a robotic arm which can be used to guide patients during a Tele-medicine session, which a lot of previous work didn't had. We have used a variation of Left Hand Maze solving algorithm which enables the robot to traverse from one hospital bed to another. Our work also consists of a medicine delivery system which delivers correct medicine to the patient at the right time with great accuracy. 
Also, we have focused on making an efficient machine out of cheap parts, so inherently our robot is cost efficient than other robots of this caliber which makes this project really vital in developing countries. So, work is vital as it solves previous issues among similar works.







